Air India on Saturday announced that it will provide an interim payment of Rs 25 lakh to the families of the deceased and survivors of the Ahmedabad plane crash.
This interim payment is in addition to the Rs 1 crore compensation already announced by the parent company, Tata Sons, Air India said in a statement.
Air India Boeing 787-8 Dreamliner carrying 242 passengers, including 12 crew members, crashed in the Meghaninangar area shortly after takeoff from the Ahmedabad International Airport on Thursday afternoon, killing 270 persons, including 241 passengers on board.
"To provide immediate financial support, Air India will be making an interim payment of Rs 25 lakh or approximately 21,000 British pounds to each of the families of the deceased and also to the survivors," Air India CEO and managing Director Campbell Wilson said in a video message.
This, he said, is in addition to the Rs 1 crore or approximately 85,000 British Pounds already committed by Tata Sons.
On Thursday, Tata Sons Chairman N Chandrasekaran had announced that the Group will provide Rs 1 crore to the families of each person who has lost their life in the Air India plane crash in Ahmedabad.
Campbell Wilson said that over 200 trained caregivers are now in place, adding "with each family assigned dedicated assistance along with access to counseling and other services." The process of reuniting next of kin with their loved ones and personal effects has begun."Our teams are working closely with the families and authorities to help the reunification process," Air India chief said.
He said that Air India is also in the process of completing precautionary safety checks on Boeing 787 aircraft, as directed by the DGCA.
"We will complete all checks within the timelines prescribed by the regulator. This has been confirmed by the authorities," he stated.
He also said that the aircraft's data recorder has been recovered, which will form part of the official investigation, adding that Air India continues to "fully cooperate" with these investigations.
(Except for the headline, this story has not been edited by NDTV staff and is published from a syndicated feed.)
Track Latest News Live on NDTV.com and get news updates from India  and around the world