Prime Minister Narendra Modi is in Canada to attend the annual G7 Summit. He said he would be discussing important global issues and highlight the issues of the Global South at the international forum. PM Modi is also scheduled to hold a host of bilateral meetings on the sidelines of the summit.
This is Prime Minister Modi's first visit to Canada since relations with the north American country slumped over the last two years over then Prime Minister Justin Trudeau's support to separatists and radical elements acting against India and Indian interests. India and Canada now aim to iron out differences with Prime Minister Mark Carney at the helm of the Canadian government. During last year's diplomatic fallout between the two nations, India's foreign ministry had squarely pinned the blame on Justin Trudeau and the actions taken under his leadership.
This visit however, is for a multilateral forum, though it is expected that PM Modi and his Canadian counterpart would meet on the sidelines to rebuild the India-Canada partnership. Besides the G7 and a meet with host Mark Carney, Prime Minister Modi's itinerary includes several back-to-back bilateral meetings with other global leaders present there.
This year's G7 marks the 51st summit, and completion of half a century for the leading multilateral forum. It is being held in Canada's Alberta in a town named Kananaskis, which has previously hosted the the G8 Summit in 2002. Though India is not a part of the G7 grouping, it has been invited for the global summit each year for the last six years and twelve times in total.
Prime Minister Narendra Modi met Italian Prime Minister Giorgia Meloni on the sidelines of the 51st G7 Summit in Kananaskis, Canada. 
PM Modi, who met Italy's Giorgia Meloni on the sidelines of the G7 Summit in Canada, expressed his enthusiasm for the growing friendship between India and Italy.
 PM Modi stated that their bilateral relationship will continue to strengthen, benefiting both nations.


Fully agree with you, PM Giorgia Meloni. India’s friendship with Italy will continue to get stronger, greatly benefitting our people!@GiorgiaMeloni https://t.co/LaYIIZn8Ry
Prime Minister Narendra Modi met his Canadian counterpart Mark Carney on the sidelines of the G7 meet in Alberta today. Their bilateral meet carries the hope of a reboot in ties since they deteriorated last year under Justin Trudeau.
PM Modi and French President Emmanuel Macron held a meeting on the sidelines of G7 Summit in kananaskis in Canada. PM Modi said that India and France will keep working closely for the betterment of our planet. 
"It's always a delight to interact with my friend, President Emmanuel Macron and exchange perspectives on a wide range of issues. India and France will keep working closely for the betterment of our planet", PM Modi wrote on X.



It’s always a delight to interact with my friend, President Emmanuel Macron and exchange perspectives on a wide range of issues. India and France will keep working closely for the betterment of our planet.@EmmanuelMacron pic.twitter.com/9f1GrUlV7d
Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said relations between India and Canada are "extremely important" as he held talks with his Canadian counterpart Mark Carney on the margins of the G7 Summit.
#WATCH | Kananaskis: During his meeting with Canadian counterpart Mark Carney, PM Narendra Modi says, "I am very grateful to you for inviting India to G7 and I am also fortunate that I have got this opportunity to visit Canada once again after 2015 and connect with the people of… pic.twitter.com/hOsEAULoG8


Prime Minister Narendra Modi met Italian Prime Minister Giorgia Meloni on the sidelines of the G7 Summit in Kananaskis, Canada.   


#WATCH | Prime Minister Narendra Modi met Italian Prime Minister Giorgia Meloni on the sidelines of the 51st G7 Summit in Kananaskis, Canada.  #PMModiAtG7 (Source: ANI/DD) pic.twitter.com/Z6dYAvORPJ— ANI (@ANI) June 17, 2025 
#WATCH | Prime Minister Narendra Modi met Italian Prime Minister Giorgia Meloni on the sidelines of the 51st G7 Summit in Kananaskis, Canada.  #PMModiAtG7 (Source: ANI/DD) pic.twitter.com/Z6dYAvORPJ


PM Modi met UK Prime Minister Keir Starmer on the sidelines of the G7 Summit in Kananaskis, Canada.

#WATCH | Prime Minister Narendra Modi met UK Prime Minister Keir Starmer on the sidelines of the 51st G7 Summit in Kananaskis, Canada  #PMModiAtG7 (Source: ANI/DD) pic.twitter.com/WHIwxTeSSC— ANI (@ANI) June 17, 2025 
#WATCH | Prime Minister Narendra Modi met UK Prime Minister Keir Starmer on the sidelines of the 51st G7 Summit in Kananaskis, Canada  #PMModiAtG7 (Source: ANI/DD) pic.twitter.com/WHIwxTeSSC
Group of Seven nations gathered for a summit have agreed six joint statements on subjects such as critical minerals, artificial intelligence and wildfires, host nation Canada said on Tuesday.

Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a bilateral meeting with French President Emmanuel Macron on the sidelines of the G7 Summit in Kananaskis, Canada on Tuesday.


#WATCH | Prime Minister Narendra Modi holds a bilateral meeting with French President Emmanuel Macron, on the sidelines of the G7 Summit in Kananaskis, Canada  The two leaders share a hug as they meet.  (Source: ANI/DD) pic.twitter.com/mWqwmgYEUz— ANI (@ANI) June 17, 2025 
#WATCH | Prime Minister Narendra Modi holds a bilateral meeting with French President Emmanuel Macron, on the sidelines of the G7 Summit in Kananaskis, Canada  The two leaders share a hug as they meet.  (Source: ANI/DD) pic.twitter.com/mWqwmgYEUz
Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday met German Chancellor Friedrich Merz and discussed ways to strengthen bilateral cooperation in key areas such as trade and investment, defence and security, green energy and technology.
Prime Minister Modi thanked Chancellor Merz for Germany's strong solidarity and support to India in the fight against terrorism, he said.

Prime Minister Narendra Modi joined fellow world leaders for a group photograph at the G7 Summit in Kananaskis, Canada. 

#WATCH | Prime Minister Narendra Modi joins world leaders for a group photograph at the 51st G7 Summit in Kananaskis, Canada.  #PMModiAtG7 (Source: ANI/DD) pic.twitter.com/pN5cmh7hcq— ANI (@ANI) June 17, 2025 
#WATCH | Prime Minister Narendra Modi joins world leaders for a group photograph at the 51st G7 Summit in Kananaskis, Canada.  #PMModiAtG7 (Source: ANI/DD) pic.twitter.com/pN5cmh7hcq

Prime Minister Modi and German Chancellor Friedrich Merz held a bilateral meeting on the sidelines of the 51st G7 Summit in Kananaskis, Canada.

Prime Minister Narendra Modi and German Chancellor Friedrich Merz hold a bilateral meeting on the sidelines of the 51st G7 Summit in Kananaskis, Canada (Source: ANI/DD)  #PMModiAtG7 pic.twitter.com/i2MvhEAt8Y— ANI (@ANI) June 17, 2025 
Prime Minister Narendra Modi and German Chancellor Friedrich Merz hold a bilateral meeting on the sidelines of the 51st G7 Summit in Kananaskis, Canada (Source: ANI/DD)  #PMModiAtG7 pic.twitter.com/i2MvhEAt8Y
PM Modi met South Korean President on the sidelines of G7 Summit in Kananaskis, Canada. 
"The two leaders reaffirmed their commitment to deepening Special Strategic Partnership by exploring new avenues for cooperation through partnerships in areas of trade & economy, critical & emerging technologies, green hydrogen, shipbuilding, culture & P2P among others. They also discussed regional & global issues", MEA spokesperson Randhir Jaiswal said on X.


PM @narendramodi met President Mr. Lee Jae-Myung @Jaemyung_Lee of Republic of Korea on the sidelines of the 51st #G7Summit in Kananaskis, Canada.The two leaders reaffirmed their commitment to deepening 🇮🇳-🇰🇷 Special Strategic Partnership by exploring new avenues for cooperation… pic.twitter.com/ZEqHYl1F7Q
Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a meeting with Mexican President Claudia Sheinbaum on the sidelines of the G7 Summit in Kananaskis, Alberta. 
The Ministry of External Affairs shared the details in a tweet on X stating that the meeting was aimed at boosting India-Mexico warm and historical ties. It added that both leaders discussed cooperation in trade, pharmaceuticals, science and technology, digital innovation, and shared perspectives on key global and regional issues. 


🇮🇳-🇲🇽| Boosting India-Mexico warm & historical ties.PM @narendramodi met President Dr. @Claudiashein of Mexico, on the sidelines of 51st #G7Summit in Kananaskis, Canada. This was the first meeting between the two leaders.Both sides discussed avenues to further deepen 🇮🇳-🇲🇽… pic.twitter.com/8MOh9gTlwS

On the sidelines of G7 Summit in Canada, Prime Minister Narendra Modi met South African President Cyril Ramaphosa.

Happy to interact with the President of South Africa, Mr. Cyril Ramaphosa at the G7 Summit.@CyrilRamaphosa pic.twitter.com/VfQhuysSmB— Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) June 17, 2025 
Happy to interact with the President of South Africa, Mr. Cyril Ramaphosa at the G7 Summit.@CyrilRamaphosa pic.twitter.com/VfQhuysSmB
Prime Minister Narendra Modi met Australian PM Anthony Albanese during the G7 Summit in Canada.

Good to meet my friend, PM Albanese of Australia during the G7 Summit in Canada!@AlboMP pic.twitter.com/vJxaptve6Y— Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) June 17, 2025 
Good to meet my friend, PM Albanese of Australia during the G7 Summit in Canada!@AlboMP pic.twitter.com/vJxaptve6Y
Prime Minister Narendra Modi met South Korean President Lee Jae-myung and President of Mexico Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador on the sidelines of the G7 Summit in Canada's Alberta.
Canadian Prime Minister Mark Carney has welcomed PM Modi in Alberta, Canada for the G7 Summit. This is the first time since the leaders of India and Canada have met since the diplomatic fallout during Justin Trudeau's regime.
#WATCH | Canadian PM Mark Carney receives Prime Minister Narendra Modi as he arrives at the venue of the G7 Summit in Kananaskis, Alberta(Source: ANI/DD)#PMModiAtG7 pic.twitter.com/RziMfFvAcT
Track Latest News Live on NDTV.com and get news updates from India  and around the world